Ladies and gentlemen, friends of Tennessee, one of the ablest and most important, and
I think one of our most capable Tennesseans who has in public life in Washington today,
and has been here for a number of years is Adrian Fisher from Memphis.
Adrian goes home and sees all of his kin folks every year and his wife comes from Nashville.
His father was a very distinguished congressman from Shelby County District for many years
and the House of Representatives.
Adrian, we certainly are glad to have you here with us.
I'm off to our honor to say hello to all your kin folks done in Tennessee.
Well, I'd like to very much, as you know, a board of Memphis, you said, and my wife's from
Nashville and my mother's family, come from Nashville.
And when I first met you, it was the junior or chamber of commerce, folks, and they made
me an honor of racism of Chaden Davis.
I feel very much at home when I go home.
That takes you to all parts of the state, all right?
Now folks, let me tell you a little bit about Adrian Fisher.
He was a large lurker for Justice Brandeis and Frank Furter when he first got out of Harvard.
He was a legal advisor for the UN delegation, a technical advisor at the Neuronburg Trials.
He was the General Counsel for the Atomic Energy Commission.
And he has now indefinitely to John J. McCloy, who is President Kennedy's advisor on this
armament, so that Mr. Fisher has had a great deal of experience in government and is one
of the most knowledgeable and influential men in Washington.
Adrian, we are talking about the Berlin crisis and we are getting our defense establishment
in better order so that we will be able to take care of ourselves and any emergency.
Why are we doing all this at the same time talking about this armament?
What is the disarmament program anyway?
Well, as I see it, there are really two sides to the same coin.
I think the President was, of course, right in his speech last week in terms of increasing
our arm strength.
But if at the same time you don't have a willingness to negotiate a workable arms reduction
agreement, workable disarmament arrangements, we are headed down the road of an unlimited
arms race and the end of that is one that is not terribly a pleasant to contemplate.
My feeling is that at the same time that we remain firm and remain strong, we indicate
a continuing willingness to conduct workable disarmament negotiations.
I don't really see the long run any workable alternative.
Well, what was it, Weston Churchill said one time about working for disarmament?
Well, he said we are armed to parlay and it seems to me you have to have a little bit
of both.
You can't negotiate from weakness and the other hand you can't just arm for the sake of
farming.
We have armed for workable arrangements.
Where is Mr. McFlaulay as the chief and you the deputy?
Where have these disarmament conversations been taking place and what is the situation?
Well, of course you have the test band talks in Geneva that Mr. Arthur Dean is conducting.
The general disarmament talks were disrupted last June.
This was under the previous administration when the Russians walked out of the Ten Nation
conference in Geneva.
We have been holding some bilateral discussions.
We had two weeks in Washington in June and two weeks in Moscow in July.
Mr. McFlaulay and his group of which I was privileged to be won just got back Sunday.
It does seem to be strange that I was in Moscow Sunday morning and here Sunday night that
that's the source of gives you some indication how small the world is now.
I want to ask you about Moscow and many but let me ask, I think all of us are hoping.
I think the plain people everywhere in the world would like to see us try to do something
better than just prepare for wars and spend all of our assessments and money and manpower
preparing for wars but of course we have to be prepared.
We have to have our defenses up but it's important as you say at the same time that we leave
no stone unturned and an effort to try to find some peaceful solution to the problems
of the world and that's what you're doing.
Well that's what we're trying to do.
That's what you're trying to do.
Well we must anyway always be willing to talk if anybody wants to talk reasonably about
this problem.
You said that you were in Russia just last week?
Yes, but left Sunday morning and left Moscow Sunday morning about 8 o'clock.
Mr. McFlaulay was there and so Mr. Krushchev I believe.
Mr. McFlaulay went to Moscow.
We left two weeks ago Friday and flew over there and we spent about a week or so in Moscow
and Mr. McFlaulay about this time last week flew down to the Black Sea to Sucy and was
Mr. Krushchev's visitor for about think two nights in a day.
Well I don't suppose as much you can tell us about Mr. McFlaulay's conversation with Mr.
Krushchev or is there anything you can do?
Well not a great deal, Senator.
They covered the waterfront to a degree although Mr. McFlaulay was there.
He's only official capacity.
He's not dealing with disarmament negotiations.
I think it's fair to say that this is more or less the premium Krushchev puts on quite
a show.
Yeah, I had a chance about four years ago talking with him while I myself and he's the
old man I ever saw that would bang the table and get up and walk around talking through
an interpreter, get all excited and that he puts on quite a show as you.
Well he's all excited.
He's one minute and then quite friendly the next time so I understand but I really can't
go into any end of detail on it.
What did you have an opportunity to go into in Russia when you were there?
Well I stuck pretty close to Moscow.
I stayed at the hotel you crain and walked over to the embassy and then walked to the
conference room and I didn't get around very much.
I was sort of tending the story during the period of the Suci conferences.
We had some work going on to disarmament delegation and as the second man that was what
I was doing when Mr. McCoy was out of the city so to speak.
As you visited the country.
Not a great deal, sir.
It was impressed.
Moscow is not as a grab to city I'm told now as it used to be.
It's still has sort of a grab look to it but the people are still our fundamentally very
friendly.
You're being invited all over the here to America campaign.
They get propaganda to it must be coming out of the ears saying what awful people we
are and yet they'd recognize you as an American street.
You didn't detect any on the average Russian.
I'm not talking now about the indoctrinated official but the average Russian seemed just
as courteous and as pleasant as you'd find someone walking down the streets of Memphis
Knoxville, Nashville, Chattanooga.
The average Russian doesn't want to have an all-out atomic war and more than we do.
I'm sure they don't.
These people didn't look like war like to me.
They look friendly.
Well, Adrian, where do we go to from now?
What are the plans for the disarmament talks?
Well, these talks were attempt to establish a framework for resumed by multilateral negotiations.
We wanted to agree where they would be conducted under what set of ground rules and we didn't
come to any conclusion on it.
As a result, the bilateral discussions will resume in New York.
I would suspect sometime after the Labor Day.
One of the things that we are extremely important though and it's important that it be done
fairly quickly is to get the disarmament activity set up on a statutory basis.
That's the Bill that President Kennedy set up to the Congress because it's really important
to have your disarmament negotiations as well prepared and as well organized and as
factually well-readed to argue as it's humanly possible to be.
And while we've been working pretty hard on it, we're still not satisfied with the organization.
And we feel that there ought to be a statutory based organization to conduct this sort of research
and to give you the sort of backup papers that you really feel that you need.
The stakes on this are just too high to be satisfied with anything less than the best
as far as preparation is concerned.
In other words, if some of the trouble points in the world are going to have to be settled
if we are ready to have disarmament or any step toward it, it has to be a great deal
with background work done and we have to know what we're talking about.
That is correct, sir.
And I think when you consider that we're spending roughly $45 billion a year on the arms
side of it and a countless number of people, when you consider private industry education,
the services themselves, it's pretty important that you have
not a big, but a authoritative and select organization dealing with the disarmament area.
And I know a lot of people say, well, the Berlin and the Aries is no time to be talking
about passing a bill dealing with disarmament agency.
On the other hand, I can't think of a better time myself unless we're prepared to say,
well, we're going to keep on arming, keep going on the arms race and let come what may.
So when you start thinking now about the horrendous quality of modern weapons and what could
happen in the event of a thermonuclear war, it really makes you decide that perhaps considering
disarmament on a workable basis is worth spending a good deal more time on and a good deal
more man hours on than even we're doing now and it's been stepped up quite substantially
over the past six months.
But of course in time is past, we've made a mistake, I think, in disarmament ourselves
but the other side's not doing much about it.
This time we're going to be sure that if we take a step so the communists will take
a step, is that?
That is certainly true.
Now, I remember being quite interested in reducing the armed forces, the United States
by at least one back in 1945 and 1946, but we went down from around 13 million to about
a million and a half with absolutely no motion of a similar character and nowhere near
that much and I'm part of the Russians.
Now that was just a mistake and this mistake I don't think we should ever make again.
I think the unilateral disarming is wrong.
I think the whole purpose of this organization, the whole purpose of the disarmament effort
is to work out some arrangement under which the two opposing forces can put down the amount
of time, money, and sweat that they're putting into arms on a mutually safe basis.
As far as the unilateral disarming of 1945 and 1946 is concerned, I don't think we should
ever repeat that mistake again.
Well, a minute ago you mentioned the Berlin crisis and I think that certainly I and I
think most Americans plotted the firm definite stand that President Kennedy took in his
recent speech in connection with Berlin.
How does the situation look to yours, anything?
You can tell us about the problem.
Well, I was really not much you can add to what the President said.
It may seem strange.
I certainly applauded that speech myself and far from seeing any inconsistency with it
and with a willingness to work out a workable assignment arrangement.
I think it was an essential step for an ovenly sound disarmament arrangement to come into
being.
I don't think with Kruciep having announced that he increased his own arm forces roughly
35 percent, his military budget 35 percent, we can say, all right, no matter what you
do, we're going to stay in the same level.
I think that's wrong.
I think what the President did was right, but I think he indicated he's opened to negotiation
and if we can work out a sound and effective, controlled disarmament, it seems to me would
be that much better off.
I thought the President's speech was a step in that direction.
We have to negotiate if we negotiate from a position of strength to be successful.
That is correct, then.
Well, I can't you, we have about one minute left.
We have the foreign aid bill that's coming up in the Congress this next week and there
will be a great deal of debate about it.
What is your general feeling about the aid developing nations and do our friendly nations
and these systems?
Well, Senator, I, of course, strongly behind that, I was in on the beginning of this and
48 worked with the Harman Committee on foreign aid and although I haven't been on it
recently because I've had enough trouble staying ahead of my own work, all I can say
though is I know the way that the Congress likes to have an annual check on things and
the big bites you're going to have about authority on a non-annual basis.
But when you're dealing with remaking the economy, particularly the underdeveloped country
and that's terribly important to us, it's awfully hard.
It's hard for them to plan on a year by year basis.
You don't make economic plans in a year by year basis.
No private business does and it's pretty hard to expect a newly emerging country to do
it.
Otherwise, the President ought to be able to make some commitment over a period of two or
three or four years and back it up.
Yes, there I'm finished.
You know, sir, I've been counseled on many private firms and you're, for you, entered
political life, very few private firms make their own plans on a year by year basis.
They make them on somewhat larger basis and I think the government should be able to
do the same thing.
Well, I think it's a great deal to do that argument.
Well, Adrian, it's sure it's good to have you with us on this program and we appreciate
very much.
You're telling us about the disarmament program and I know that your friends in Tennessee
are glad to see you looking so well and rugged.
Thank you very much, Sandra.
I appreciate the opportunity to be in here.
That's all for now.
Thank you very much.